---
title: What is the reason for the rise in food prices?
categories: Economic Reviews
date: 2019-06-10
---

# What is the reason for the rise in food prices?

The rising food prices have captured the attention of every Chinese family. According to government statistics, the price of pork increased to 14 percent in April compared with a year earlier, while broader food prices for consumers rose 6.1 percent.

## Why does the price increase?

First, certain seasonal factors should be considered.
The usual peak season for fruit ripening is summer and autumn. Apparently, the supply is not available in May. At the same time, after the gradually warming weather in May, the demand for fruit began to increase. The continuous decline in supply and the increasing demand have led to a jumping rise in fruit prices .Commodity prices depend on supply and demand, and fruit is also same. On the demand side, the consumption of fruits by Chinese residents has continued to increase in recent years, which is a strong support of the fruit price.

However, considering the short-term changes in demand, it is not the main reason for the recent sharp increase in fruits. This year, the price increase of fruit is jumping because of the decline in supply, and the decline in supply is attributed to the bad weather.

Taking Apple as an example, due to the bad weather last year, the output of Apple has dropped sharply, which has led to a decline in the standard size of the apples available for sale this year. As a result, the rise in Apple prices is not difficult to predict. In addition, the cold spring last year also affected the production of other fruits. Apart from this, China significantly increased the tariffs on imported fruits from the United States, which led to a decline in the supply of imported fruits.

